Add documentation for the new `-mtune` syntax (#122)
riscv-non-isa/riscv-toolchain-conventions: src/toolchain-conventions.adoc

- https://github.com/riscv-non-isa/riscv-elf-psabi-doc/blob/master/riscv-elf.adoc#large-code-model[Large code model]: -mcmodel=large
- https://github.com/riscv-non-isa/riscv-elf-psabi-doc/blob/master/riscv-elf.adoc#medium-position-independent-code-model[Medium position independent code model]:  -fpic, -fPIC, -fpie or -fPIE.

== Specifying tuning processor and tuning features with -mtune

> Compilers accept the `-mtune` flag to specify the tuning processor model and

Author: Fixed

features. They allow users to compile with the assumption of certain performance
characteristics. Tuning processors and tuning features should not affect any of

> the _architectural_ properties or behaviors.

Reviewer: I feel we might want to be more explicit here that tuning features must not change what cores the code is compatible with. I tried a few sentences but they all ended up sounding very legal-jargon-y, which I wanted to avoid (and more legal-jargon-y than your sentence here)

The `-mtune` flag accepts the following syntax: `-mtune=<tune-cpu>[":"<tune-features>]?`,
in which
[source]
----
tune-cpu      ::= 'tuning CPU name in lower case'

> tune-features ::= directive ["," directive]*

Author: Done, right now I simply use `[a-zA-Z0-9_-]+`

> tune-features ::= directive ["," directive]*

Reviewer: We probably don't want to let people mix underscores and hyphens, but sure. :)

----
A *directive* can and can only _amend_ or _subtract_ a certain tuning

> feature from the tuning CPU. For example, given a tuning CPU `sifive-x280` that

Reviewer: "Tuning CPU" is a slightly strange phrase, how about "tuning model", maybe something like:

```suggestion
A *directive* can and can only _enable_ or _disable_ a specific tuning
feature within the tuning model for the named CPU. For example, given a tuning 
model for the `sifive-x280` CPU that
```

assumes DLEN being half of VLEN, `-mtune=sifive-x280:no-dlen-factor-2` delivers
the same set of performance characteristics as `sifive-x280` except it no longer
assumes DLEN being half of VLEN. In other words, `no-dlen-factor-2` is a directive
that _subtracts_ tuning feature. Directives of this kind are also know as
*negative directive*.
A **positive directive**, on the other hand, adds an additional tuning feature onto the
tuning CPU. For example, `-mtune=sifive-x280:single-element-vec-fp64` gives you
performance characteristics that are a union of that of `sifive-x280` and `single-element-vec-fp64`,
which assumes certain FP64 vector operations to produce a single element per cycle.

> The `single-element-vec-fp64` in this case is a positive directive.

Author: yeah, good point. I have changed to using `no-<X>/<X>`

The tuning features amended by positive directives in a tune feature string cannot
overlap with tuning features subtracted by negative directives in the same string.
This mandate applies to explicitly induced tuning features as well as tuning
features that are implied _implicitly_. For example, `enable-foo` and `disable-foo`

> are the positive and negative directives of feature `foo`, respecitvely, and the

Reviewer 2: Typo: "respecitvely" should be "respectively"

== Specifying tuning processor and tuning features with -mtune

Compilers accept the `-mtune` option to specify the tuning processor model and
features. They allow users to compile with the assumption of certain performance
characteristics. Tuning processors and tuning features should not affect any of
the _architectural_ properties or behaviors.

The `-mtune` option accepts the following syntax: `-mtune=<tune-cpu>[":"<tune-features>]?`,
in which
[source]
----
tune-cpu      ::= 'tuning CPU name in lower case'
directive     ::= "[a-zA-Z0-9_-]+"
tune-features ::= directive ["," directive]*
----
A *directive* can and can only _enable_ or _disable_ a certain tuning
feature within the tuning model for the named CPU. For example, given a tuning
model for the `sifive-x280` CPU that assumes DLEN (data path width in bits) being
half of VLEN, `-mtune=sifive-x280:no-dlen-factor-2` delivers the same set of
performance characteristics as `sifive-x280` except it no longer assumes DLEN being
half of VLEN. In other words, `no-dlen-factor-2` is a directive that _disable_

> tuning feature. Directives of this kind are also know as *negative directive*.

Author: Fixed

known as *negative directive*. A **positive directive**, on the other hand, enables
an additional tuning feature in the associated tuning model. For example,
`-mtune=sifive-x280:single-element-vec-fp64` represents a set of performance
characteristics that is a union of that from `sifive-x280` and `single-element-vec-fp64`,
which assumes certain FP64 vector operations to produce a single element per cycle.
The `single-element-vec-fp64` in this case is a positive directive.

It is in our best interests to align the directives that are supported by multiple compilers.
However, it is understandable that the set of supported directives might vary from
one compiler to another. Therefore, unrecognized directives are ignored for compatibility

> reasons, and the compiler may optionally emit a warning.

Reviewer 3: Why should emitting a warning be optional?

directives: for example, `no-short-forward-branch-i-minmax` is the negative
directive for feature `short-forward-branch-i-minmax`.
Given this context, we have the following examples:

`-mtune=rocket:short-forward-branch-opt` is a valid string, obviously. This results
in `short-forward-branch-opt`, `short-forward-branch-i-mul`, and `short-forward-branch-i-minmax`
being _enabled_ among `rocket` 's existing performance characteristics.

`-mtune=rocket:no-short-forward-branch-i-mul` is a valiad string. This results in
both `short-forward-branch-i-mul` and `short-forward-branch-opt` being _disabled_
from `rocket` 's performance characteristics.

`-mtune=rocket:short-forward-branch-opt,no-short-forward-branch-opt` is *invalid*.
We do not allow these directives to "cancel out" each other.

`-mtune=rocket:short-forward-branch-opt,short-forward-branch-opt` is *invalid*.
We do not allow more than one occurrence of the same directive.

`-mtune=rocket:short-forward-branch-opt,no-short-forward-branch-i-mul` is *invalid*.
The `short-forward-branch-i-mul` produced by `short-forward-branch-opt` cannot
be canceled out by `no-short-forward-branch-i-mul`.

> This _non-overlapping_ rule is a deliberated decision to simplify the logics and prevent

Author: Fixed

this from becoming unmanageable in the future.

> It is worth noting that the actual tuning feature name is an implementation detail -- it

Reviewer 3: This paragraph doesn't really explain what a "tuning feature name" is versus a "directive name". It assumes knowledge about LLVM/gcc implementation. I think including this paragraph just increases confusion.

can be completely different from its directive names. For example, a tuning feature
`foo` can be dictated by directives `xyz` and `no-xyz`.

=== List of common tuning features
Here is a list of tuning features shared by GCC and Clang at this moment. Each entry
starts with `<positive directive name> / <negative directive name>`, followed by
description of the performance characteristics enabled by the positive directive.

- `short-forward-branch-opt` / `no-short-forward-branch-opt`: Has short forward branch
optimization, which effectively predicates instructions of certain types that follows

> immediate after a forward branch.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
immediately after a forward branch.
```
